In your reflection, please discuss and demo all of the following:
● What techniques, technologies, and patterns did you use in your website?
I have made this portfolio website using the languages HTML and JS, and I have 
used CSS for the styling. Along with my own CSS, I used a lot of Bootstrap and 
also included the google stylesheet so I could use the icons in my website.


● Which other web sites did you use as inspiration? What aspects did you use in 
your own design?
I took some inspiration from LinkedIn, particularly the cover picture and the 
cards for education. 

● Demonstrate and explain how you made your web site responsive, so it works well 
on both phone and desktop browsers.
I started with a desktop-first approach and made the website based on that. 
Then, with the use of media queries in CSS, I made changes (for screens with 
max-width of 768px) and in particular, made the elements block level, whose 
displays were earlier inline or flex.


● Explain some of the main features of HTML Forms and Input elements you used 
to help make sure the user’s input was valid for your forms, and to keep them 
from submitting mistakes.
I had two options, either to use JavaScript for the input validation or use HTML 
for doing so. In one of the lab previously, we were asked to validate using JS, 
so I thought of doing differently this time. For the fields we were asked to 
create, I used their respective input types and the required attribute. Other 
than that, I created a field for phone number which I set to optional. For the 
phone number and postal code fields, I provided the proper regex inside the 
pattern attribute for the validation. 
I have added one very interesting logic to the form. So if the user will choose 
a city out of these 10 in the datalist, it will iterate through this object, find 
that city and set the minimum attribute of the pay rate input to the corresponding
value, which otherwise would be equal to 15.


● How did you test that your responsive design and web form were both working, 
and did this testing find any bugs in your implementation? How did you address 
these?
I wrote the entire HTML first before adding any CSS or JS. So, as soon as I built 
the form, I could check if it was working. I had to make some tweaks - making 
some fields required, adding the pattern attribute to make sure all the correct 
data was being passed on to the web form. The form also required DOM manipulation,
 where we had to add this field for the hourly pay rate based on the value of the 
reason. When I did so, it was failing to submit because it was a required field, 
and I had used CSS to hide the field in case when the reason was Question or 
Comment. So the required field was there but not visible, which would not have 
allowed the user to submit it. So I had to edit my JS for this particular task - 
I removed the field entirely from the form when the reason was Question or 
Comment and dynamically created it in case of Hiring.

For the responsive design, I used the browser's developer tools. I used 
breakpoints at the pixels where the content started to break and look unformatted, 
to set up the media queries. A lot of time went into changing the margins and 
paddngs in order to fix the format for different view modes and for different
devices.


● What advice would you give to other web developers building forms for their 
pages based on your own experience? What lessons did you learn?
What I feel is that most developers while trying to showcase their skills might 
add too much functionality and/or animations. I am of the opinion that, a 
developer's job is to make things easier for their client and for whoever uses 
the application/webpage. The page should be easy to the eye of the viewer.
Same goes for the forms, a developer should help the user as much as possible 
while filling out the forms. This can be done in many ways - clearly mentioning
which fields are required or not, what format is accepted such as in case of
phone numbers, emails or postal codes. And also, by using the autocomplete and 
tabindex attributes of the input element.


● What improvements would you make to your webpage? What would you do differently
if you built it again?
I would definitely start with a mobile first approach, and then later use the media
queries to display the page for wider screens. Other than that, I would try to 
write all the CSS by myself, without using any frameworks like bootstrap.


The website starts with a title section where I have displayed my 
name, image and these links. The Resume link would download my resume in pdf form, 
and this contact me link would take the viewer to the form section.
I have used flexbox to display this section, where the image and the text have been
placed in child elements, and set to inline display.

The next section introduces myself, along with the Honesty Statement. Again for 
this part, I have made use of flexbox, where these two sections are the flex
children.

Then comes the education section, styled using bootstrap as well as my own CSS.

The final part of the website - forms is styled entirely using Bootstrap, because
I feel Bootstrap has a great form writing style, considering all the styling of
the labels and the input boxes.


The second part of the assessment was implementing a static hosting solution so
that the website can be viewed online. This part did not take much time. I chose
Vercel for doing so. I have already created a repository for all my WEB222 labs
and assignments on Github. So I just linked the final assessment branch to the 
vercel project.

Overall, this assessment has incorporated all the content of the second half of the
semester from HTML, CSS to DOM Manipulation and creating and validating forms. So, 
it has definitely been a great learning curve for me.